smmtt updates per TG call on 4/30 (#48)
riscv/riscv-smmtt: chapter2.adoc

[[chapter2]]
==  Summary of extensions for Supervisor Domain Access Protection

The following normative architecture extensions are defined.

* `Smsdid` (<<Smsdid>>) - An interface to program the active supervisor domain
under which a hart is operating. This is a dynamic control state on the hart
that can be held in an M-mode CSR and modifiable by the RDSM via CSR r/w
instructions  - herewith called the `supervisor domain identifier` assigned to
the hart. The SDID is a local identifier for the hart and may be used to tag
hart-local resources to access-control data associated with the supervisor
domain. The supervisor domain identifier is independent from the hart privilege
levels and there is one CSR (per hart) managed by M-mode. This extension may be
used independently or may be combined with other extensions in this
specification.

> * `Smmtt` (<<Smmtt>>) - An interface to set the access permissions for a memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Smmtt` (<<Smmtt>>) - An extension to set the access permissions for a memory
```

> region or page associated with a supervisor domain. This interface allows for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
region or page associated with a supervisor domain. This extension allows for
```

> dynamic changes of access permission (which may require appropriate flushing of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dynamic changes of access permission. Such dynamic changes may require flushing of appropriate 
```

state cached in harts). The access properties are programmed via an Memory

> Tracking Table (MTT) structure, accessed via per-hart M-mode CSRs and which may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tracking Table (MTT) structure. The physical page number (PPN) of the root table of the MTT is programmed into a M-mode CSR.
```

> be backed by additional in-memory structures. The M-mode CSR interface is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> expected to program the root physical page (MTTPPN) - for when the MTT is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> memory-based structure, the MTTPPN would hold the physical address of the root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> page of the MTT structure in memory - the MTT is expected to be memory resident

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> at time of access. When `Smmtt` is active, MTT and e(PMP) remain in use (always

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `Smmtt` is implemented, MTT and e(PMP) are always active. Although there is no option to disable MTT, it can be effectively disabled if granular memory access control is not required by configuring its mode to be `Bare`.
```

> active). Additionally, MTT may be configured in `Bare` mode if granular memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> access control is not required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * `IO-MTT` (<<IO-MTT>>) - A non-ISA interface enables programming of an IO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `IO-MTT` (<<IO-MTT>>) - A non-ISA extension that enables programming of an IO
```

> interconnect to associate SDID to IOMMU ID (called the SD Classifier). The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interconnect to associate and IOMMU and devices in scope of that IOMMU with an SDID. The
```

> interconnect to associate SDID to IOMMU ID (called the SD Classifier). The

Author: ```suggestion
interconnect to associate and IOMMU and devices in scope of that IOMMU with an SDID. The
```

assignment of IOMMUs to supervisor domains is also expected to be under the

> purview of the RDSM. IO-MTT interface specifies the memory access interface for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
purview of the RDSM. IO-MTT extension specifies the memory access control mechanisms for
```

> physical-addresses encountered during IOMMU address translation as well for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
memory accesses performed by the IOMMU as well as by the devices associated with that SD.
```

> final physical address of access. Note that isolation of data within a device is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that isolation of data within a device is
```

out of scope of this specification.

> * `Smsdia` (<<Smsdia>>) - A M-mode CSR interface enables assignment of IMSIC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Smsdia` (<<Smsdia>>) - This extension enables assignment of IMSIC
```

> S-interrupt file or an APLIC domain to a Supervisor Domain. The interface also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interrupt file(s) or an APLIC domain to a Supervisor Domain. The interface also
```

[[chapter2]]
==  Summary of extensions for Supervisor Domain Access Protection

The following normative architecture extensions are defined.

* `Smsdid` (<<Smsdid>>) - An interface to program the active supervisor domain
under which a hart is operating. This is a dynamic control state on the hart
that can be held in an M-mode CSR and modifiable by the RDSM via CSR r/w
instructions  - herewith called the `supervisor domain identifier` assigned to
the hart. The SDID is a local identifier for the hart and may be used to tag
hart-local resources to access-control data associated with the supervisor
domain. The supervisor domain identifier is independent from the hart privilege
levels and is held in a M-mode CSR. This extension may be
used independently or may be combined with other extensions in this
specification.

* `Smmtt` (<<Smmtt>>) - An extension to set the access permissions for a memory
region or page associated with a supervisor domain. This extension allows for

> dynamic changes of access permission. Such dynamic changes may require flushing of appropriate 
> state cached in harts. The access properties are programmed via an Memory
> Tracking Table (MTT) structure. The physical page number (PPN) of the root table of the MTT is programmed into a M-mode CSR.
> When `Smmtt` is implemented, MTT and e(PMP) are always active. Although there is no option to disable MTT, it can be effectively disabled if granular memory access control is not required by configuring its mode to be `Bare`.

Author: ```suggestion
dynamic changes of access permission. Such dynamic changes may require flushing of
appropriate state cached in harts. The access properties are programmed via an Memory
Tracking Table (MTT) structure. The physical page number (PPN) of the root table of
the MTT is programmed into a M-mode CSR. When `Smmtt` is implemented, MTT
and e(PMP) are always active. Although there is no option to disable MTT, it can be
effectively disabled if granular memory access control is not required by configuring
MTT mode to be `Bare`.
```

the hart. The SDID is a local identifier for the hart and may be used to tag
hart-local resources to access-control data associated with the supervisor
domain. The supervisor domain identifier is independent from the hart privilege
levels and is held in a M-mode CSR. This extension may be
used independently or may be combined with other extensions in this
specification.

* `Smmtt` (<<Smmtt>>) - An extension to set the access permissions for a memory
region or page associated with a supervisor domain. This extension allows for
dynamic changes of access permission. Such dynamic changes may require flushing of
appropriate state cached in harts. The access properties are programmed via an Memory
Tracking Table (MTT) structure. The physical page number (PPN) of the root table of
the MTT is programmed into a M-mode CSR. When `Smmtt` is implemented, MTT
and e(PMP) are always active. Although there is no option to disable MTT, it can be
effectively disabled if granular memory access control is not required by configuring
MTT mode to be `Bare`.

* `IO-MTT` (<<IO-MTT>>) - A non-ISA extension that enables programming of an IO

> interconnect to associate an IOMMU and devices in scope of that IOMMU with an SDID. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interconnect to associate an IOMMU and devices in scope of that IOMMU with an SD. The
```

assignment of IOMMUs to supervisor domains is also expected to be under the
purview of the RDSM. IO-MTT extension specifies the memory access control mechanisms for

> memory accesses performed by the IOMMU as well as by the devices associated with that SD.

Reviewer 2: SD: the abbreviation is not explained in the spec. Suggestion to either introduce term in glossary entry for "Supervisor Domains" or add after first usage in document.

Author: updated glossary

Note that isolation of data within a device is
out of scope of this specification.

* `Smsdia` (<<Smsdia>>) - This extension enables assignment of IMSIC

> interrupt file(s) or an APLIC domain to a Supervisor Domain. The interface also

Reviewer 2: supervisor domain: 

There may be a few more instances where capital letters are used when the term is used in stand-alone mode.

> interrupt file(s) or an APLIC domain to a Supervisor Domain. The interface also

Author: ```suggestion
interrupt file(s) or an APLIC domain to a supervisor domain. The interface also
```

> interrupt file(s) or an APLIC domain to a supervisor domain. The interface also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interrupt file(s) or an APLIC domain to a supervisor domain. The extension also
```

> describes CSRs to allow M-mode software to retain control on notification of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provides CSRs to allow M-mode software to retain control on notification of
```
